as Maya Angelou said if you don't like
something change it if you can't change
it change your attitude that's some of
the best advice you're ever going to
hear at the end of the day you should
always be trying to change the things
that you have the ability to change
there are inevitably going to be things
that you can't change but you're never
helpless you're never a victim in that
moment you still have the unbelievable
ability to choose to look at it in a new
way to choose to reframe it and in that
reframing you change everything you
don't just change your own neural
chemistry you're not just changing the
way that you feel you're actually
changing the way that you're going to
approach the problem something that was
moments before something that seemed
impossible something that was breaking
your will to continue to fight with a
change in attitude becomes something
completely different and as hans selye
said adopting the right attitude can
turn a negative stress into a positive
one and that game of mental jujitsu is
what it's about that game of flipping
something on its head of turning
something around of seeing it in a new
way so that you can act in a new way is
how you make forward progress and
understanding that understanding the
need to take control of your perceptions
understanding that understanding your
need to change your perspective that's
how you begin to get ahead once you
understand your perspective is a choice
it is not objective truth burn that into
your mind
it is not objective truth the world that
you see around you is simply the
perspective through which you see it all
of life is a funhouse mirror
and when you acknowledge that when you
understand that you're looking at a
distorted view of the way the world is
you realize that you can adopt a
different Distortion you can adopt a
distortion that allows you to see things
more clearly that allow you to see
things in a way that empower you and
that should always be the first step is
figuring out not what is not what you
can change but instead understanding
what you need to change it to an
understanding that that change comes
from inside you it isn't a manifestation
that you have to make in the outside
world first it's a change you have to
make inside yourself it is a shift of
perspective it is simply stepping to the
side of what you're used to and how you
use to seeing things and understanding
that in reframing things you take that
negative and turn it into something that
builds you up but you've got to choose
you've got to decide you've got to
believe that you can do it but once you
believe that you can see things in any
way that you need to to reach your goals
your life will change forever because
you'll actually reach your goals
[Music]
you
I wanted to spell a myth for you it's
the talent myth it's the belief that
some people were just born with more
than others that some people are
naturally gifted in some aren't and
that's just the way the cookie crumbles
and whatever you're gonna be is
essentially determined by how you
started that your DNA is exactly your
destiny I'm here to tell you right now
that's [__] it's just not true it's
not the truth of the way that humans are
designed as a species were the ultimate
adaptation machine but the very thing
that puts us at the top of the pyramid
is our ability to adapt it is the fact
that the brain is plastic that it
responds to change it responds to
stressors it responds to repetition and
repetition is a slave to obsession as
Conor McGregor said there's no talent
here this is hard work this is an
obsession you could be anyone if you put
in the time that's one of the greatest
athletes of our time telling you that
he's not the result of genetics he's not
the result of natural gifts he hasn't
been bestowed something by God he has
shown up day after day in the most
mundane of conditions on the cold days
on the hot days he put in the work
because he was obsessed with what he
could become and that repetition that
you need to actually gain a skill
follows that obsession so in you right
now right now today you want to start
building that obsession you want to look
at it like an ember that can become a
raging fire but it needs your time and
attention it needs your time and
attention you've got to take that
interest you've got to take that spark
of desire and you've got to fan the
flames you've got to turn it into that
obsession and from that obsession if you
put in the work
if you do
day in and day out the back-breaking
work pushing through the pain
fighting through feeling like an idiot
fighting through embarrassment getting
up brushing yourself up doing it again
practicing putting yourself at
somebody's feet and asking what could I
have done better not look at the things
you're doing well but look at the things
we're doing wrong look at the things
you're doing poorly staring at your
inadequacies with no loss of pride
because the only thing you value in
yourself is your willingness to do that
your ruling is to work your ass off and
as Sylvester Stallone said I'm not the
richest smartest or most talented person
in the world but I succeed because I
keep going and going and going and
that's the secret there's nothing more
than that
the people that you see that win at the
highest level they were the ones that
didn't give up
they're the survivors and you've got to
ask yourself am i a survivor type am I
the type of person that continues to
push through when it gets hard when it
gets boring when I feel lost when I
don't know what I'm doing when I have no
faith in myself even in that darkest
hour can I push forward can I accept
that the human body will respond to that
stress it will respond to that stimulus
but I have to show up and I have to do
the work and so that's the beautiful
thing you're not gonna separate yourself
based on your genetics you're not gonna
separate yourself based on who your
parents were where you were born
you're gonna separate yourself by
showing up when you don't want to you're
gonna separate yourself by pushing
forward when it hurts
you're gonna separate yourself by always
moving forward even when the forward is
falling on your face so never lose sight
of that it's the person that keeps going
that can't be defeated
you